# LSE_Course2_NHS_assignment
Week 2: A quick analysis of the data revealed a few insights and some information that will be shared with the corresponding NHS trusts. The different systems and ways of recording come into sharp focus with the analysis. 
It can be seen that the top 4 NHS trusts where most amount of time recorded were in the East and South-East of England. London could only manage only 1 trust. A significant number of appointments were not attended by patients, and many were classified as unknown which means that it is not known whether the patient attended or not and that can impact complete analysis leading to wrong conclusions. 
Many records are classified as unmapped which means not recorded properly. This will affect the data analysis and not be able to give the correct information required for decision-making. They were also classified as inconsistent mapping which meant that the data was not recorded under the current classification system and shows that the data classification must be revised, to capture all data under the relevant classification.
 More analysis is to be done to find how NHS can action the pinch points and create a standard way of recording and managing data.

Week 3 Summary: After making sure that the data files have been imported correnbtly in Pandas and have been set up corrently for analysis by sense checking using functions like .dtypes(), .info() and columns(), I then procedded to answer the questions by using functions like .value_counts() which returns the count of occurrences of a particualr data, .sum() to calculate totals. I also used the locator function .loc() to extract the columns needed for analysis. I used functions to do analysis on dates which was quite new to me and a bit daunting. To convert the date type to datetime() function was new to me and it introduce me to a whole new way of analysing date related columns. I learnt how to use groupby() function to split columns and sort them and extract specific date from other columns. It was quite interesting and would like to know more about how to use these syntaxes more better. As I understand practices is of course the best way.

Week 4 summary: As can be seen from the first illustration, the number of people attending GP surgeries are the highest and that is the main focus of primary healthcare in UK, and it has been noted that GP surgeries can offer more thatn just consultation and can act as a community healthcare pint where not only consultation but other services like blood tests and treatments for other diseases such as Diabetes can be administered. Healthcare workshops (surgery size allowing) can be conducted, information regarding hygiene and diseases like Cancer and oral related issues can be communicated to the community. But the visual also shows worryingly many cases are not recorded properly which can have an adverse effect on the budget and also on planning of future services and ultimatley on purchase fo drugs needed for treatment. The second and third visual shows that most treatments and consultations were done face-to-face and by personal visits from NHS staff. But again many instances were not recorded properly and have been reflected as unmapped or unknown and these need to be addressed urgently to have a better understanding of which services are needed most and where most money should be spent on. Again the other visuals highlight what has been seen earlier, sample months taken during each season clearly show GP practices are the focal point of administering primaary healthcare.

Week 5 Summary: the visualisation techniques offered by Python and used on the NHS database threw up a few observations which though not many as re still quite important as they shed light on the usitlisation of services of NHS and also shows where the expenditure of funds will be focused and where cutbacks can be made. This has a big ramification for NHS especially in today's times with budgets being slashed everywhere and the government beingn tight-fisted, NHS will have to manage itself better and perhaps make some difficult decisions in the future. As can be seen in the plots that GP related services were of the highest demand and face-to-face appointments and care-related apointments(including house visits and visiting old age homes by nurses and qualified carers) are the most in demand and hence its a no brainer as to where most funds will be sent. But it also shows some worrying trends such as mis-reporting, incorrect recording of information which causes the results to be skewered and definite conclusions cannot be arrived at. this is expensive to NHS and a drain on the managememnt of NHS as whole. Accross all types of services provided by NHS it can be seen that GP offered services are the most used and hence can be used as a focal point for all NHS communication and enhanced services offered such as all GP can do blood tests and deliver results to the patient. 

Week 6 Summary: the first vsualisation shows a big spread of data for same day appointments. this shows that patients are gong directly to GP or even A&E for treatment and that means pressure on staff to cope with the influx of patients thus inclreasing waiting times. this graph alone points to a increase in staffing levels.The case is strenghtened with the second graph that illustrates that the most times NHS was needed was during the winter months and summer months as pollen allergies kick in. The next graph shows that most patients go to their GP and that GPs are the focal point for many a treatment and when the situation is now analysed it points to a more increase in GP practices than staffing in hospitals. The attendance levels are also high meaning staffing has to be maintianed at a high level to ensure all GP and Hospitals give the best possible service. All visuals point ot the fact that patients want to have a human touch and will attend appointments to consult with the staff.
